So we're at the point where we know that the user did enter valid credentials,
now we want to use that information to generate such a
json web token which I showed you on the slides. For that let's quit the server here,
the node server
and let's install a new package, the package
I want to use is called jsonwebtoken,
one word, this is a package which allows us to conveniently create such new json web tokens.
We can now restart a server
and we need to import this into this file,
so here, I'll import it, store it in a constant named jwt, the name is of course up to you
the json web token package or the object it exposes. Now down there
after checking the password, I want to generate a new token stored the token and I'll store the constant named token
and then here I'll use the jwt package and there the sign method,
this creates a new signature and packs that into a new json web token. We can add any data we want into
the token, like for example we could store the user email,
so access the loaded user e-mail and the user id, access the loaded user _id
and since it's a mongodb object ID here, let's convert that to a string.
So now I'm storing some user data in the token,
of course you should not store the raw password in here because that would be returned to the frontend,
to the user to whom the password belongs but still not ideal, email and user ID should be fine however
and then you need to pass a second argument which is that secret, so that private key which is used for
signing and that is now only known to the server and therefore you can't fake that token on the client.
I'll enter secret here,
typically you want to use a longer string like some super secret secret or even longer,
also check out the official docs of the json web token to learn more about it all. I'll
also set a third argument where I configure this and there, I'll set an expiry time of one hour with this
syntax so that the token becomes invalid after one hour.
Now this is a security mechanism you should add because the token is stored in the client,
now of course by the client to whom it belongs but technically, that token could be stolen. If the user
does not logout, another person copies the token from his browser storage and then he can use it on his
own PC forever.
Well not forever now at least because after one hour, the token becomes invalid,
so this is a good security mechanism which is like a nice, finds a nice balance between usability where
you would want infinite sessions and security where you would want to limit this to like one second.
Now this is all a nice in-between solution which is pretty common.
So now we have a token which we can return to the client,
so here indeed I will now return a response with status code 200 where I add some data,
we can add a message if you want but I will only add that token which I generated and a user ID and
that is my loaded user ._id toString. Now that data needs to be provided because in the
react app
I gave you,
I'll be looking for that ID and I'll be storing it, by the way you should also take one hour
because in that react app, I'll log you out after one hour and all that storing and so on will be done
by the frontend,
now I'll show you how it gets stored in a second of course.
So let's now go back to our auth route and connect our login route to our auth controller and there, the
login action
and now with that, let's go back to the frontend and work on the code there as well.
So in the frontend here in the app.js file where we have the sign up handler,
we have to look for the login handler here and we should fix the url there
too, the url is localhost 8080/auth/login,
we need to pass an object where we now also change the request method to post and where we pass our
data.
So just as with signing up, we can actually copy that logic from there, the headers and the body, copy
that and move it to login,
we don't pass the name in the body though
but password and email will be passed.
Now there is another small adjustment required, here
you can actually directly access auth data e-mail and auth data password.
Now with that, save that and go back to your react app and try logging in with the credentials you created
a couple of lectures ago.
It should work,
this error still is coming from the status which we'll fix soon
and here we also see that I'm logging something, we see that token that was generated and the user ID.
In your chrome browser dev tools, you can also go to the application tab and there go to the local storage,
select your domain and you will see that token here,
that is the token we generated on the server.
The other data is data I'm storing here or that was stored way back by other application so we don't need that,
that has nothing to do with our app.
We have the expiry date which I generated on the client
to know when I should remove the token because it expired and this is the token itself.
Now you can also take that token and visit jwt.io, there you can learn more about json web
tokens first of all and you can also paste your token into that area on the left
and this allows you to look into your token, you don't see your secret but you can now validate it.
If you enter your secret which you chose on the server, some super secret secret, then you should end
up with that same token you copied in
and indeed if I replace it, it does not change.
And here you also see that payload data you added on your server side,
you could theoretically extract that on the client too
and that is why you should not store super sensitive data in there
but this now also shows you that if I try to generate this token on my own, let's say I also edit it like
change the email address, the token changes on the left and therefore if I edit this, it will not be validated
because now the token is not the same as it was when it was generated on the server with this secret.
So if I try to generate my own one with a different secret, I'll end up with a different token and if
I try to edit the data in there, I also do so I can't mess around with the token in the client,
the server will detect this. This is how we can login and how we work with tokens to know whether we
are logged in.
We're missing one important piece of information though,
we have the token,
now we also need to attach the token to requests that require authentication because right now,
well I am logged in, I only see these options after logging in but theoretically deleting, editing and
so on does not really care about the token. We should change this,
we should also connect new posts to our user and we should make sure that only users who created a post
can edit or delete it.
So still some work to do.